Hello everyone and welcome to the recommender system code along lecture in this lecture we're going
to take the famous movie lends dataset which is a really common data set when learning about recommender
systems and we are going to build our own recommendation engine using Python and spark in alternating
least squares matrix factorization.
So let's open a new Jupiter notebook and get started.
OK so here you have my new notebook open and they've created a spark session and I started the spark
session.
Now we're going to do is import the main models we're going to be using in this case we'll say from
Paice Burke sequel.
Scuse me M-L da recommendation import and we're going to import HLS for alternating least squares and
I also want to evaluate this later on and we'll show you how with Imelda's evaluation I'm going to import
a regression evaluator Now the next step is to actually import our data and we're again going to be
using that movie lends data set to really feminist's dataset.
And you can actually Google search movie lens and it's movie lines and score ratings I see as V for
our particular case and you can find this under the recommender systems folder under Sparke for machine
learning.
And this is a kind of the smallest chunk of the dataset you can actually get.
There is much much larger versions of this but they're the largest version large enough that it probably
wouldn't fit on a single computer or single ram you would have to open up a cluster and operate that.
But again that will cost you money will do its little small data set so it can run it for free locally
and at most we're going to say header's true.
So the first game is true header's true.
After that that's loaded up.
So take a look at the data.
So we'll say data that show and the basic idea is that there's a movie ID.
So that's a particular number.
There's a rating and then there's a user ID.
So what this means is user id zero.
So Person number zero Saw movie ID number two and gave it a rating of three stars out of five stars.
And then the same users zero saw a movie ID number three and gave it a rating of 1 star.
OK.
So the other thing to note is that the movie lends they say kind of has these two data frames or two
such as the FBI files the data set we're working with uses movie ID.
There's another data set that goes along with it that connects the movie ID to the actual movie names
so for instance movie ID number two can be Star Wars movie.
Number three can be Indiana Jones 5 or Jurassic Park etc..
That's not really important for our recommendation system.
So we'll just keep them as an American movie idea since that's really the only information we care about.
All we need to know is the relationship between the user the item and this case the movie and then the
rating or review given.
So we'll continue on.
And now we can check out the data with Describe just to see how many points we have.
So all the top pros were for user zero.
But if we scroll down after the scribe we can see we have users zero 3:29 in this dataset and we actually
have 1500 entries and this is still considered pretty small for a recommendation engine especially if
just 30 people here will continue along.
And now the next step is to actually split our data into a training set and a test set because later
on we're going to be able to evaluate how well our model performed.
But keep in mind it's actually really hard to know conclusively how well a recommender system did especially
for certain topics that subjectivity is involved.
For example not everyone that loves Star Wars is going to love Star Trek even if they're Bouffes science
fiction certain users or certain people just aren't going to like the same things especially when subjectivity
is involved with creative items like books or movies etc..
So keep that in mind.
It's always really hard to kind of evaluate these things conclusively but I'm going to create training
and test sets from data ran them split and because we're dealing with kind of a smaller data set we'll
say 0.8 for the training and 0.2 for the test.
Now remember this is a random split meaning you're not going to get the same results.
I do.
So now it's time to create our alternate at least squares model.
So if you do shift tab there is a ton of parameters here that you can adjust rank.
Max adorations regularisation parameters number of user blocks cetera.
So what we're going to do is just basically do some of the defaults that the documentation shows.
So we can say Max iterations five documentation shows that as well.
And we kind of have a regular zation parameter of 0.01.
And if you want to know more about these things you can check up that book on recommender systems that
we mentioned during the kind of theory lecture that we have our three main columns so these are the
absolutely critical columns.
There's the user column and then there's the item column and then there's the rating column.
So these are the three columns that are always going to need.
And like I mentioned a big part of building a recommendation system that is intended to work with Python
and SPARC is that you actually get your data into a format where you essentially just have the user
the item and the rating.
So in this case our user is just user ID or item is the movie Id.
And if I enter here our rating is reading so low run that.
And now let's create a model.
So a model is equal to AOS and then to fit it to the training data.
And now that I have that model I'm going to create something called predictions to see how that model
performs.
So it'll say model and we will transform our test set there we go.
And now we have predictions so if I take a look at what predictions actually looks like and let it run
I have four columns now.
So this from the test data set remember that.
So I have the movie Id the rating and then the user id and then I have the prediction.
So for example in real life user number four Saw movie number 31 and gave it a rating of 1 star.
My prediction was that the user would have given it a rating of 1.6 5 stars.
So that's not so bad.
There's other predictions that are quite worse.
So for example 87 saw a movie ID number 31 the rating they actually gave was three stars.
However I would have predicted based off other people's viewing habits that this was a negative one
star.
Now keep in mind since we are essentially treating the prediction that is that star rating as a continuous
value we can get negative prediction values.
Now that's OK for us.
Basically what a negative score indicates is a real dislike for the movie so definitely don't suggest
it to them.
But even with this small dataset we can still be off.
So let's look at for example this one we have four stars here from 11 to movie 81 and we predicted one
and a half stars so it looks like we're going a little low and we've got some that are high.
So we have a user ID to give this movie one star and then we have 4.7.
So it looks like a movie 85 and gen's was a total bomb.
So we're kind of all over the place with it.
And that has to do with the fact that we're dealing for pretty small dataset for a recommender engine
spacesuit with just 30 users on it.
OK.
So we're going to continue along and see if we can kind of more formally actually evaluate this model.
So not to have predictions I'm going to create an evaluator object called the evaluator and then I'm
going to say regression evaluator.
And the metric name we're going to use is whatever metric you want to use for a continuous prediction.
So we're treating the star rating as a continuous value which means I can do something like root mean
squared error and then I'll say label column is rating and then my prediction column is equal to prediction
run that.
And then I can say my root mean squared error is equal to this evaluator object.
So evaluator.
And then I will evaluate my predictions.
So it's going to see overall on these continuous values.
How far off was the rating from the prediction.
What's the root mean squared error there.
So we will run that.
And then let's print out root mean squared error and then print out our missy.
All right.
So for this particular Ramme split our routine squirter was one point.
A That's not so great.
In fact it's actually pretty bad given that it's only from zero to five stars or excuse me even one
to five stars that will be a root mean squared error of 1.8.
That kind of means or predictions are all over the place which is to be expected given how small this
dataset was.
So keep that in mind that's not too bad given what we had to work with.
There are much much larger versions of that movie lens dataset.
So if you're looking to kind of boost this our embassy I would encourage you to do a google search for
those larger data sets.
However they are large enough where they may not fit on your computer.
OK so now the question arises What if we have a single user.
How can we actually use this on a fresh user.
So I'll say this single user is equal to the test data and I'm going to filter out for just the typical
user.
So will say user ID and I said equal to 11 and then I'm going to select just two columns the movie Id
And then the user itself.
OK so if I take a look at my single user and show this for this single user I have all the movies that
user number 11 watched in the test data set.
So movie Id 18 19 user ID there all 11.
So these are all the movies that user ID number 11 saw in the test data set.
And what I'm going to do is kind of show you how we would use this to predict whether or not user ID
is going to enjoy these movies that you can basically think of this as if user id just open up their
Netflix and they've already seen a couple of movies and then they want to know hey I haven't seen a
movie 18.
Do you think I'm going to like it.
Yes or no.
And then what do you think would be my star rating for it.
So that's essentially the problem we're solving here.
So let's make something called recommendations and that's going to be equal to our model.
And we are going to transform the single user.
And then once that's done I can check out my recommendations and then say order by the prediction column
and we'll say sending is sequel to false and show the results here.
And that may take a little bit of time with the order by and the actual grabbing of the data but here
it is.
So the basic premise here is hey number 18 are user number 11.
I think you'll enjoy movie number 18 based off your previous viewing habits and the viewing habits of
other users that have seen movie 18 and are kind of similar to you.
So here we have our prediction and then we can say hey I really don't watch movie 99.
I think you're going to hate it.
And it's essentially the basic premise of how you would recommend this stuff to a user that's already
seen movies on your platform and is interested in more movies.
Now there's also something called a cold start problem and the cold start problem is what do you do
with users that are new to your platform and haven't seen any movies whatsoever.
Well there's different ways of trying to solve that you could give them a quick survey on what movies
have you watched.
Can you quickly rate them for us.
You can also just say Hey are you similar to user or X Y or Z.
Which is typical profile etc..
So those are more domain knowledge issues than actual algorithmic issues.
But keep that in mind.
Cold start is definitely a problem of recommendation systems in general.
All right.
Hope you enjoy this lecture.
You can check out the notebook for a lot more explanatory text especially concerning Aliase.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next section.